IBM SkillsBuild Presents How to Become a Cybersecurity Professional
https://skills.yourlearning.ibm.com/activity/URL-735724680A3B?channelId=CNL_LCB_1580409324694

Cybersecurity skills are in high demand in many countries around the world and there are multiple professions in the fields. Many examples show that the cybersecurity field is well suited for a career change. But who is suitable for it and where is the best place to start?

In this recorded webinar, you will:
Learn from the personal stories of an army career changer into cybersecurity and a founder of a social enterprise redefining inclusion and integration of migrants and refugees through industry-led education in cybersecurity.
Explore the typical working day of a cybersecurity professional.
Get insights into the skills needed to become a cybersecurity professional.
Understand first steps into cybersecurity learning.
Find out what makes the difference when employers are looking for cybersecurity professionals.

Agenda
Skills needed to become a Cybersecurity professional
First steps into Cybersecurity
What employers are looking for?
What Cybersecurity roles are there?
A day in the life of a Cybersecurity professional

Speakers
Dina Vyapuri https://www.linkedin.com/in/dinavyapuri/
Ivor Cook https://www.linkedin.com/in/ivorcook/

Skills needed to become a Cybersecurity professional
Hard Skills vs Soft Skills

Hard Skills
Proficiency in a foreign language
A degree or certificate
Typing speed
Machine operation
Computer programming

Soft Skills
Communication
Flexibility
Leadership
Teamwork
Time Management

First steps into Cybersecurity
Explore the industry
Understand your skills
Find a mentor
Find Introduction course
There is no one linear path to a successful career in cybersecurity
Some people enter the security field straight out of college, while other transition from another IT role or completely different industry

What employers are looking for?
Be able to learn and eager to develop new skills
Ability to work in a team
Ability to work under pressure
Be able to learn and adapt
Be curious: Who, What, Where, When, Why and How
Be albe to communicate complixity with clarity


What Cybersecurity roles are there?
Security Consultants, Engineers, Analysts
Incident Responders / SOC Analysts
Computer Forensics / Investigators
Penetration Testers / Ethical Hackers

A day in the life of a Cybersecurity professional
Making plans and changing them
Working in a team
Communicating and asking questions
Documenting

